---
layout: post
title: "When in doubt"
id: when-in-doubt-50
published: false
---

Seems as though it's a week of re-introductions in the Coldfusion community. After "Tim's":http://www.buntel.com/blog/index.cfm?mode=entry&amp;entry=54DB3FFD-4E22-1671-5BDCF74737695F12 post I'd estimate I've read at least 10 other such descriptions. Sounds like as good a time as any to do the same!

* 24 years old
* I live with "Marilyn":http://trickster-brat.livejournal.com/ , my girlfriend of 11 months.
* Drive a Red 2002 Mini Cooper S with a white top that seems to need servicing every other month.
* Bought a house here in Orlando last July and have only decorated with furniture from my moms old house.
* I loved macs until I was in 10th grade and started programming, where I switched to actually using computers for programming. I've been a Windows person as long as I can remember, and currently run Server 2003.
* I go to the movies often, and watch a lot of "foreign movies":http://dymension.org/movies.php , usually from HK, South Korea and Japan. With Universal Citywalk and Downtown Disney not too far off, not to mention the renown "Enzian Theater":http://enzian.org/ there's a lot of great places to see movies in Orlando.
* 24, Battlestar Galactica, Heroes, Lost, Gilmore Girls (gf got me into it!), Smallville and Beauty and the Geek aren't left on the DVR for longer than a day
* I love Ultimate Frisbee, skiing, and running, although I haven't been doing much of any of those recently.
* As for food, I love sushi, indian food and anything exotic. If I've never tried something I'm much more likely to order it.
* According to "Last.fm":http://www.last.fm/user/Dyogenez/ , I'm a fan of the Magnetic Fields, Beatles, Tom Lehrer, The Sounds, Death Cab for Cutie, Ben Folds, The White Stripes and just about any musical you can find.
* I usually stay away from YouTube- - i think my laziness to find a sound driver for my laptop plays some small part in that. I spend my time sucked into Digg and monitoring my endless inflow of news via RSS instead.