---
title: Panama - City
short_title: City
date: 2015-11-10
collection: panama
permalink: city
description: Casco Viejo, Via Argentina and Panama City
header: /images/galleries/japan/kiyomizudera_temple/resized/pagoda.jpg
poster: /images/galleries/japan/kiyomizudera_temple/resized/pagoda.jpg
tags: Travel
stats:
  photos: 154
series: true
parent: central-america
---

The city isn't that large, with the rainforest and the ocean holding it in. For tourists, the main sites of the city can be seen in a day or two. We concentrated on a few main areas for our stay: the Albrook Mall (where we were staying), Via Argentina Street, the waterfront and Casco Viejo.

__general_city__

## Via Argentina

This area has a few things.

__via-argentina__

We walked south all the way to the waterfront where we

## Waterfront

Lots going on at the waterfront.

__waterfront__

We finished the night up with some ceviche and a pair of beers for $5.

## Casco Viejo

Casco Viejo is the "old city". If you've been to San Juan or even Key West it might look familiar. Small streets, little shops.

__casco viejo__

We made two unfortunate decisions with our timing. We were here the day before independence day, which meant a number of shops were shut down. The second mistake was that

### Bajarique Coffee Kitchen

We found some amazing at Bajarique Coffee Kitchen

__bajarique__

### Casa Sucre

Wandering north, we found Casa Sucre, another small coffee house and cafe.

__casa sucre__

### Art

Nice amount of art around the city as well.

__casco art__

### The View from Outside

Like many nice neighborhoods, only a few blocks from Casco Viejo are some of the most run down parts of the city. Houses with tarps for roofs.
