---
layout: post
title: "Bringing Mediums Together"
id: bringing-mediums-together
published: false
---

"Sean Corfield":http://corfield.org/entry/cfweekly mentioned it, but I thought I'd mention it at well - there's no Coldfusion Weekly this week. I hadn't realized it, but it's quickly become a must-listen podcast for me, usually on Mondays. A few times I think I've grabbed it on Sunday night I believe too. They mentioned in their last episode that they recently began using "Del.icio.us":http://del.icio.us/ to manage their links, with tags "per episode":http://del.icio.us/cfweekly . You can add these tags (or the entire user) to an RSS reader and instantly you have the initial link list to read over. I tend to find a lot of programming links either through CF Weekly, Del.icio.us or Digg, so having the delicious data for as specific a user as a Coldfusion Podcast is helpful. I don't know if they're looking for this, but with Delicious you can also recommend links for a specific user. The way you do this is by tagging it with "for:cfweekly" all as one word. Next time that user logs in they'll see bolded link up top that says "links for you (x)", with X being the number of new links. This is an extremely useful method for sending links to people that I wish more people would use. My girlfriend and I use this daily to stay in touch. You can feel free to recommend any links for me using "for:dyogenez", or view the growing collection over at "http://del.icio.us/dyogenez":http://del.icio.us/dyogenez . As far as a single place to get all the latest news about Coldfusion, the Coldfusion Weekly podcast is doing a great job (keep going!), but there are a "few other resources that can be used":http://www.adamfortuna.com/2007/01/21/want-more-to-read-heres-where-to-start/ , but getting the entire CF Community to use something is like herding cats (ex: frameworks). The "Coldfusion":http://del.icio.us/tag/coldfusion tag on Del.icio.us is going surprisingly strong though, and worth a look. "OpenID":http://del.icio.us/tag/openid isn't doing bad lately either. :)