---
title: Montreal
date: 2015-12-02
collection: montreal
tags: Travel
poster: /images/galleries/montreal/travel/montreal--travel-s001-r4.jpg
header: /images/galleries/montreal/travel/montreal--travel-s001-r4.jpg
published: false
stats:
  photos: 142
  videos: 2
description: Birthday getaway with Marilyn during August 2015
short_description: Weekend getaway to Montreal
published: false
---

A year or so ago Marilyn and I were chatting about where we could go for a "quick-ish" trip that would still offer a new cultural perspective. We narrowed it down to a few places -- Central America, Cuba, Vancouver and Montreal. Food won the day, and Montreal's French influence lured us to come and check out the city.

We decided to head up for a culture and food trip for Marilyn's Birthday. Being big fans of the French-inspired Canadian food we'd tried, we knew there would be a lot of good food (and poutine) in our future.

## Travel

From Orlando, Montreal is a short 4 hour flight, non-stop flight. You still have to do the customs thing, but it's still 10 hours quicker than flying over to Europe.

@gallery montreal/travel


## Hotel

We ended up staying at [Hotel Zero 1](http://www.booking.com/hotel/ca/le-1-rene-levesque.en-us.html), which ended up being in an amazing location. We were within walking distance of the Plateau, Montreal Underground, Chinatown, Old Town and a short subway ride away from the Olympic Village area. In our entire time there, we spent less than $50 on travel, mostly in the form of $4 Ubers.

@gallery montreal/hotel


## Bouillon Bilk

A few blocks from our hotel was [Bouillon Bilk](http://bouillonbilk.com/en/) a decadent French Canadian restaurant. It was a bit on the expensive side for dinner (and reservations were needed), so we stopped in for a lunch. We were not disappointed by the poutine, or anything else. This continued our trend of eating at the best restaurant to start the trip out.

@gallery montreal/bouillon_blk

## City Streets

After lunch we started heading north up to [Mount Royal](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mount_Royal), a large central park high up on a hill that overlooks the city. We underestimated the trip up, and it ended up taking 2 hours or so, but it was fun exploring the city.

@gallery montreal/city_streets

## Pikolo Espresso Bar

Before too long we ran into the [Pikolo Espresso Bar](http://pikoloespresso.com/en/), an amazing little coffee shop with one of the best mixed expresso's I've ever had.

@gallery montreal/coffee

## Below the Park

The walk up to the park itself was nice...

@gallery montreal/below_the_park


## Trip up

@gallery montreal/trip_up


## Top

@gallery montreal/top


## Outside

@gallery montreal/outside


## Inside

@gallery montreal/inside


## Views

@gallery montreal/views


## Foodlab

@gallery montreal/foodlab







## Montreal botanical garden

@gallery montreal/montreal_botanical_garden


## Olympic park food trucks

@gallery montreal/olympic_park_food_trucks


## Gardens

@gallery montreal/gardens





## Chinatown

@gallery montreal/chinatown





## Building

@gallery montreal/building


## Notre dame

@gallery montreal/notre_dame


## Streets

@gallery montreal/streets


## Lunch

@gallery montreal/lunch





## Plateau

@gallery montreal/plateau


## Underground montreal

@gallery montreal/underground_montreal


## Food

@gallery montreal/food
